According to the Wall Street Journal,
Gen Z graduates are facing the worst job
market in over a decade. With Enthropic
CEO warning that AI could eliminate
nearly half of all entry-level jobs just
within the next 5 years. And while 72%
of Gen Z lives paycheck to paycheck,
nearly half are working three or more
jobs just to survive, raising the
question, why is Gen Z yet another
generation promised a future that no
longer exists? While obtaining a
lifelong career was once as
straightforward as simply answering a
job post in the local newspaper or a
firm handshake prompted by a help wanted
sign in the window, today despite 75% of
employers stating they're struggling to
fill job vacancies, the second highest
rate in two decades, a 2022 study of
over 300 job applications submitted by
Business.com's departing interns found
that only 12% received any response from
employers. just 5% expressed interest in
the applicant and not a single
application resulted in a hire where
employers were actually more likely to
ghost candidates if the graduate met
over 90% of the listed requirements. And
although job postings have been
weaponized to serve employer interests
throughout most of modern history, most
notably during the civil rights era
where employers flooded local job boards
to portray government compliance by
suggesting they were doing everything in
their power to offer equal hiring
opportunities, but just that no one was
applying. The recent implementation of
ghost jobs has essentially scaled greed
and manipulation into a fully normalized
and institutionally accepted hiring
practice. Where in a recent survey by My
Perfect Resume, 81% of recruiters
admitted their organization had posted
fake job listings with 21% acknowledging
that half their listings had no
intention of resulting in a hire. And
while some ghost jobs are simply the
result of outdated, forgotten postings,
many are deliberately created as a
strategic tool to generate billions of
dollars in hidden profits. where
journalist Bob Sullivan notes that every
week data from 75% of Fortune 500
companies, 85% of the federal workforce,
and countless institutions flows into
these databases, tracking everything
from social security numbers and
salaries to healthcare coverage and job
tenure with companies like Facebook,
Amazon, Oracle, AT&T, and Microsoft
feeding data into these systems. More
globally, Rukunabi, a major jobseeking
platform in Japan that primarily caters
to college graduates or those just
entering the workforce, was caught
selling predictive scores gathered
through job applications to roughly 40
corporations, including Toyota and
Mitsubishi, estimating how likely each
applicant was to decline a job offer or
withdraw their application. And because
Japan's lifetime employment system
promises job security for life in
exchange for loyalty to a single
company, the sale of these cores had an
immeasurable impact on someone's entire
career path. And while this was only
uncovered due to Japan's data privacy
laws, unlike the United States, which
still relies on so-called business
ethics, it turns out that Rkunabi is a
subsidiary of Recruit Group, the same
media conglomerate that owns both Indeed
and Glass Door, where according to an
analysis by the workforce analytics firm
Rellio Labs, as a result of platforms
like Indeed, Glass Door, and LinkedIn,
online job listings in 2024 were only
half as likely to result in a hire as
they were in 2020, signaling just how
wid widespread and normalized these
deceitful listings have become as a
corporate recruiting strategy. And while
the Library of Congress has officially
recognized ghost jobs as a serious
concern in today's job market, the fact
of the matter is we're facing not just a
hiring crisis, but decades of societal
abandonment of the working class. with a
culture that blames every rising cost
and systemic failure on what should be
considered fundamental worker rights.
where despite job scams and fake
employment agency fraud increasing from
$90 million in 2020 to over 500 million
in 2024 and even as legislators in New
Jersey, Kentucky, and California have
proposed bills to address ghost
listings, no legislation has been
introduced in Congress that explicitly
targets this issue or any of the
systemic forces that have been
undermining the workforce for the last 5
decades. where, in my opinion, one of
the most massively understated reasons
this continues to happen actually has to
do with government tax subsidies. Where
Greg Loy, executive director of Good
Jobs First, a national policy center
focused on corporate and government
accountability and economic development,
explains on his website and in his book,
The Great American Job Scam, how tens of
billions of taxpayer dollars are
funneled into corporate tax subsidies
under the promise of job creation. But
instead, it often leads to widespread
layoffs through automation and
outsourcing despite companies still
keeping the full tax breaks, ultimately
turning into a redistribution of public
funds back into the hands of certain
government officials in the form of
campaign contributions during
re-election. where alongside the broken
promises of job creation at both the
federal and corporate level, worsening
economic conditions and the ideological
belief that the working class is the
only thing standing in the way of
shareholder profits has resulted in a
labor market that has completely sold
off the bottom rung of the career
ladder. where unlike America's postwar
economic expansion, where hard work and
dedication truly did provide a stable
career filled with upward mobility, only
15% of current vacancies are now filled
with internal candidates, a 75% decrease
over the last 50 years, with companies
now relying more on outside hiring,
often favoring those who already have
years of work experience. with Scott
Deutman, CEO of Avenia, a US-based
career platform for new graduates,
stating, "Employers are unhappy with the
level of talent they're getting in the
entry-level space. So, instead of trying
to take corrective action, they've
increased experience requirements. In
the last 5 years, we've seen a 20%
increase in the number of skills
required on job listings. where a study
by Generation, a nonprofit network
focused on economic mobility, found that
of the 1300 employers surveyed across
eight countries, including the US and
UK, 94% required applicants for
entry-level tech jobs to already have
experience in a related field. More
broadly, out of 3.8 million jobs on
LinkedIn, roughly 38.4% 4% of entry-
level positions required 3 to 5 years of
experience, forcing young workers to be
completely dependent on internships as a
prerequisite for employment. With
companies such as Surface Now reporting
a 50% increase in internship
applications this year, while Citadel
saw applications rise by 65%, ultimately
accepting just 300 of the 69,000
applications it received. And as
competition for these positions has
intensified, employers have taken
advantage of the discounted labor,
fueling a further rise in unpaid
internships. Where according to the
National Association of Colleges and
Employers, 47% of internships in 2022
were unpaid, creating a new form of
economic stratification, as paid interns
averaged 1.4 job offers postgraduation,
while unpaid interns averaged less than
one. effectively proving that even if
you go to college, land an internship,
and graduate, your chances of securing a
job are severely limited if the
internship was unpaid. Because in the
recruiter's eyes, an unpaid internship
offers no more credible work experience
than a basic service level job. Or this
increasingly competitive and misaligned
job market isn't just affecting Gen Z in
the United States. Unfortunately, it's a
part of a much broader global trend. In
Canada, their youth is facing the most
challenging employment landscape in over
two decades with unemployment among Gen
Z reaching 12.2%, more than twice the
rate of the prime working age
population. In China, youth unemployment
stands at 15.8% prompting many Gen Z to
adopt the label rat people, a satirical
response to the overwhelming pressure of
competing in a system where meaningful
career opportunities are rapidly
disappearing. And as nearly threearters
of all hiring managers continue to
consider Gen Z to be the most difficult
generation in the workforce, employers
are making a calculated bet that AI will
evolve fast enough to replace the need
for entry-level talent. Or unlike
previous generations who were hired
based on work ethic with the expectation
that job specific skills would be taught
on the job, today's employers are
severely reducing their already limited
training programs. with a 2021 report
from the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, which
includes over a 100 countries focused on
improving public policy uncovered that
most nations spend an average of 62% of
their GDP on active labor market
programs like job training, employment
incentives, and public hiring
initiatives. The United States spends
less than.1%.
The same as Chile, where as a result,
despite estimates that 50% of entry-
level jobs could be eliminated within
the next 1 to 5 years, the broader rise
of automation and artificial
intelligence is projected to displace
another 45.3 million workers by 2030.
And while many in Silicon Valley compare
the greatest technological advancement
in human history to the disruption of
the car or calculator, the reality is
that the speed at which this is
happening is not only eliminating entire
categories of work that once served as
stepping stones for career advancement,
but the complete lack of preparation is
coming at the cost of an entire
generation. All for the optimistic
assumption that it will eventually lead
to a better world. And while older
members of Gen Z may still have time to
self-educate in hopes of combating the
uncertainties of just the next couple
years, the youngest are only 13, meaning
their education and skill development
will be shaped entirely by decisions
made today. Or this is what the
Secretary of Education had to say about
artificial intelligence in schools. I
heard I think it was a letter or report
that I heard this morning. I wish I
could remember the source, but that
there is a school system that's going to
start um making sure that first graders
or even preks have A1 teaching, you
know, every year starting, you know,
that far down in the grades. And that's
just a that's a wonderful thing. And
when considering the United States track
record of creating better jobs for
future generations, combined with the
complete lack of any favorable political
or corporate direction over the last few
decades, it's unfortunately hard to
imagine that we won't face years of
severe unemployment in the job market
before potentially realizing any
meaningful benefits from AI. where
during the unprecedented outsourcing of
manufacturing jobs that dominated the
1980s,90s and early 2000s, Americans
were told that factory jobs were beneath
them, that they deserved better, higher
quality careers. Yet during Reagan's two
terms, despite creating 16.1 million
jobs, only 28% were considered highle
occupations. The remaining 12.5 million
were concentrated in low-wage service
work during Clinton's presidency. Even
with 22 million jobs created, between 40
to 45% were low-skill, low-wage service
roles, with most of the so-called
highwage opportunities not coming from a
healthy labor market, but from
speculative hype during the.com bubble.
And after the Great Recession, mid-wage
occupations accounted for 60% of the
jobs lost, but just 27% of those
regained. Meanwhile, low-wage jobs,
which made up only 21% of losses,
accounted for 58% of new jobs created,
pushing those without a college degree
or those unable to secure a job
post-graduation into low-skll, low-wage,
dead-end roles, proving that Jenzie is
not only having to compete over
increasingly worse jobs, but the belief
that better jobs are just around the
corner is an overly optimistic fantasy.
And even for those able to bypass the
rings of Dante's Inferno just to get
hired, wages are simply not maintaining
the rising cost of living, where since
1970, the US dollar has lost roughly 85%
of its value, with 25% of that erosion
occurring just in the past decade. And
despite nominal wage increases,
productivity has increased 80% between
1979 and 2024, while wages have only
grown by 29.4% 4% equating to an annual
inflationadjusted increase of just2%. Or
according to a recent report from
Newsweek, Gen Z carries the highest
average personal debt at $94,11,
far above millennials at 59,181
and Gen X at 53,255.
where compared to just a decade ago, Gen
Z is paying 31% more for housing, 46%
more for health insurance, over twice as
much for car insurance, and is projected
to spend roughly $145,000
in rent just by the time they turn 30,
compared to $126,000 for millennials at
the same age. And if current trends
persist, after tax, after healthcare
income for the average family is
projected to decline by 37% by 2030,
with rising health care costs accounting
for most of the loss. And while society
is so unbelievably divided to the point
that we fail to acknowledge we're all
underpaid when accounting for the fact
that minimum wage was intended to
provide a living wage. Today roughly 44%
of full-time US workers are not
achieving that effectively resulting in
half the American workforce making less
than the minimum wage would be if it had
remained tied to worker productivity. I
watched every single news clip about the
job market that that recent graduates
are facing and how AI is going to
replace entry-level jobs. I also watched
the ones that were promoted in Canada. I
also subscribed to about 15 to 20 maybe
22 different media outlets and I read
every single news article that they had
on that. What I increasingly got the
sense of was maybe 25% 20%
was discussing the severe implications
of 50% of entry- level jobs being just
gone between 1 to 5 years and then it
was filled with but on the bright side
well there'll be new jobs created by AI.
I think the unfortunate reality in
something like that is that yeah that's
true probably in a hundred years if we
make it that far 150 years 200 years
things probably will be quite
um prosperous if we can make the right
decisions to get there but it will be at
the cost of tens of thousands of
millions of people's lives and we failed
to address that people are hurting right
now and we're about to just completely
shake it all up. And and and I'm even I
I don't even fully believe that AI will
disrupt
as much as they're saying, as quickly as
they're saying. But I'm also not going
to uh disregard the fact that that
technology is is increasing at a speed
that we cannot comprehend. Does anybody
know what happened between 1710 and
1725?
Absolutely not. But I can guarantee you
it wasn't the as much of the changes
that we've experienced between 2010 and
2025.
One of the things that kind of just sent
me over the edge was in one of the the
um
the the news the one of the videos that
I watched was a lady that was saying how
college graduates or just Gen Z can
overcompensate the increasingly the
increasingly difficult job market. and
she said that you prioritize
human networking, which I absolutely
agree on and I have said that in many
times in my videos. I personally will
never do another online job application.
And for transparency, I've actually
never gotten a job through an online job
application platform. It's only been
through human connection. And so that's
why I promote that. I've also found a
lot of recent success in things through
this this channel, being able to speak
with people about jobs and things of
that nature, as well as doing men's
groups and and other things of that
nature.
But what she said was she said, "You
need to do things that AI can't do." So,
start writing letters to those that uh
did the interview that helped you during
the interview process. So, if you got
interviewed, you're going to write them
a thank you letter for the opportunity
for that.
The reality is is that if you did 300,
400, 500 job applications and you've had
five interviews and none of them
resulted in a hire, that you had to go
through all of the insanity that I just
mentioned in this video, that you're
then going to say, "Thank you. Thank you
for this heaping pile of garbage that is
plaguing us. I can't stand that." And so
that's where I feel the need to show I'm
not being
overly dramatic. I'm just trying to be
realistic. I'm trying to address, hey,
this is a issue. This is a concern. This
isn't just some YouTube video. This is a
severe concern. I just want to go back
and just show some of the reasons why
employers and hiring managers are using
ghost jobs. More than 60% of companies
who reported posting ghost jobs said
they did so to make employees believe
their workload would be alleviated by
new workers. 62% of respondents said
they posted ghost jobs expressly to make
their employees feel replaceable. 43%
stated they used it to give the
perception that their company was
thriving despite uncertain economic
conditions. 85% go as far to interview
candidates despite not actively hiring
for the role. Nearly 70% of them said
posting fake job listings boosted
revenue. 65% said the job ads had a
positive impact on morale. 77% reported
an uptick in productivity among workers
because they were scared of losing their
job. And 70% believe this is morally
acceptable to do this. And so when
knowing that, I just can't stomach the
fact of saying, "Hey, just tighten up
your resume, work on your cover letter,
go go uh hop on LinkedIn and and network
more on there or write a letter to your
interviewer.
I just feel that we are failing to
address the ramifications that we are
all about to experience. the fact that I
post a minimum wage video and all that
happens is that there's just arguments
about if we should raise it or if we
shouldn't mostly that why we shouldn't
despite the video never actually
addressing if we should or if we
shouldn't. It was that none of us are
getting paid what we are supposed to. If
you adjusted minimum wage for
productivity, 50% of Americans are
making minimum wage.
The way that we have just been divided
is unbelievably dangerous. And the
unfortunate thing is I am young. I am
25. When I started making this video, I
truly believe that if I provided facts
and and I worked really hard on making
sure that I provided things in a
coherent and structured way that it
would help people realize that, oh, we
need to come together. And each video
just slightly I'm starting to believe
that that isn't possible. And I won't
give up and I won't stop believing that.
But God, it it's getting it's getting
very difficult. And
on on a positive note, I know that I'm
kind of uh contradicting what I just
said.
It is very interesting that I released
the ghost job video on March 25th, 2025.
I would suggest going and re-watching
that video and then going and looking at
the Library of Congress's uh report on
ghost jobs published April 25th, 2025
and seeing
maybe some of the similarities there.
I just want to say that
you can make a difference and that the
information as long as you're having
productive conversations
can actually begin to to do something.
That video got half a million views.
There was a ton of comments, it was able
to push
it was able to do something. Um,
so ultimately what I always end with is
how do we make a change? How do we
actually make a change? The way you
actually make a change is by having
productive conversations because it will
ripple down. It'll make a larger effect.
If you have people making
really breaking down dis complex
discussions to where people are engaging
that makes a massive that that is able
to combat the absolute fake corporate
media on all sides. It is an absolute
just
heaping pile of garbage. But ultimately,
I hope this was able to provide value.
Please don't walk away from this feeling
down. Try to realize this is a realistic
aspect of life. Now, we need to do
something about it. I unfortunately
don't have the solution, so let's come
together and try to figure that out. Um,
anyway, thank you all so much for your
time. Until next time. Bye-bye.